---
description: Compliance standards supported by DuploCloud
coverY: 0
---

# Security and Compliance Standards

## Which compliance standards does DuploCloud support?

* **SOC 2** - SOC 2 compliance demonstrates that a company has established and follows strict information security policies and procedures for storing data in the cloud. Achieving SOC 2 compliance is important for technology companies, especially those providing cloud services, as it assures customers that their data is handled with the highest standards of security and privacy.
* **PCI** - PCI is the Payment Card Industry, and the term is commonly associated with the set of security standards known as the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS). PCI DSS is a comprehensive framework developed to enhance the security of payment card transactions and protect cardholder information. It applies to any organization that processes, stores, or transmits payment card data.&#x20;
* **HIPAA** - HIPAA is the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act. It is a U.S. federal law that was enacted in 1996 and has since been amended to address various aspects of healthcare information management. HIPAA is designed to safeguard the privacy and security of individuals' protected health information (PHI) while also facilitating the flow of health information and promoting electronic transactions in the healthcare industry. See HITRUST, below.
* **ISO** - ISO is the International Organization for Standardization. It is an independent, non-governmental international organization that develops and publishes standards to ensure the quality, safety, and efficiency of products, services, and systems. ISO standards cover a wide range of areas, including technology, manufacturing, healthcare, agriculture, and more. ISO standards are recognized globally, and compliance with these standards can enhance the credibility, interoperability, and market acceptance of products and services. Organizations often seek ISO certification to demonstrate their commitment to quality, safety, and environmental responsibility.
* **NIST** - NIST is the National Institute of Standards and Technology, which is a non-regulatory agency of the United States Department of Commerce. NIST's mission is to promote innovation and industrial competitiveness by advancing measurement science, standards, and technology. One of the notable contributions of NIST is its publications, including the Special Publication (SP) series. For example, NIST SP 800-53 provides guidelines for securing information systems and managing cybersecurity risk. NIST plays a crucial role in promoting standards and technologies that contribute to the economic development, safety, and security of the United States.
* **GDPR** - GDPR is the General Data Protection Regulation, and it is a comprehensive data protection and privacy regulation. GDPR applies not only to organizations located within the EU but also to those outside the EU that process the personal data of EU residents.&#x20;
* **HITRUST -** HITRUST, which stands for Health Information Trust Alliance, is an organization that developed the Common Security Framework (CSF), a comprehensive framework for managing and securing sensitive information related to healthcare. While HIPAA is a regulatory framework mandated by law, HITRUST is an organization that developed a comprehensive framework (HITRUST CSF) that incorporates and aligns with various standards, including HIPAA. Organizations in the healthcare industry often use HITRUST CSF as a tool to enhance their security posture and demonstrate compliance with multiple regulations and standards, including HIPAA.
* **FEDRAMP** - FedRAMP is the Federal Risk and Authorization Management Program and is a U.S. government program that standardizes the security assessment, authorization, and continuous monitoring processes for cloud services used by federal agencies. FedRAMP is designed to enhance the security of federal information systems and ensure a consistent and streamlined approach to evaluating the security of cloud services. By adopting FedRAMP, federal agencies can take advantage of shared security assessments, reduce duplicative efforts, and accelerate the adoption of secure cloud services.
* **Custom** - In addition to supporting compliance standards, reporting, and alerting for all of the standards above, DuploCloud can craft a custom solution for you if you require compliance to another standard, or custom reporting of any supported standards.
