# Tenant

Tenant is the most fundamental construct in DuploCloud, acting as a project or workspace that is a child of the infrastructure. It represents an application's entire lifecycle and is designed to provide a high level of isolation and security. While Infrastructure is a VPC level isolation, Tenant is the next level of isolation implemented by leveraging security mechanisms such as Security Groups, IAM role, Instance Profile, K8S Namespace, KMS Key in AWS, and analogous concepts in other cloud providers like resource groups, managed identity, ASG, etc., in Azure.

A Tenant in DuploCloud is essentially four things, at the logical level:

* _Container of resources_: All resources (except those corresponding to infrastructure) are created within the Tenant. Deleting the tenant results in the termination of all contained resources. This encapsulation ensures that the lifecycle of all tenant resources is centrally managed and monitored.
* _Security Boundary_: It acts as a security boundary with unique security groups, IAM roles, and instance profiles per tenant, ensuring that all resources within a tenant can communicate securely. For instance, a Docker container deployed in an EC2 instance within the tenant will have access to S3 buckets and RDS instances within the same tenant, but not to resources in another tenant, unless explicitly allowed through ELBs or inter-tenant SG and IAM policies.
* _User Access Control_: DuploCloud emphasizes self-service and granular access control. Users can be granted access specific to tenants, enhancing collaboration while maintaining strict access boundaries. For example, developers John and Jim may have access to the Dev tenant, whereas Joe, an administrator, has access to all tenants, and Anna, a data scientist, has access only to the data science tenant.
* _Billing Unit_: Each tenant serves as a distinct billing unit, with all resources tagged with the Tenant's name in the cloud provider. This facilitates easy segregation of usage and costs by tenant, simplifying financial management and reporting.

{% hint style="info" %}
Tenants also serve as a mechanism for alerting, logging, and metrics, allowing for granular performance monitoring, scaling flexibility, and tighter security. A common use case in organizations includes having multiple tenants such as Dev and QA under the non-prod infrastructure, and Pre-prod and Prod tenants under the Prod Infrastructure. Larger organizations might have tenants by groups, such as a tenant for Data Science, and another for web applications. It's also common for companies to create dedicated tenants for each of their end-user clients in scenarios where the application is single-tenant. This logical construct facilitates a wide range of organizational structures and use cases, demonstrating the flexibility and scalability of the DuploCloud platform.
{% endhint %}